Community restructure (#723)
iota-wiki/iota-wiki: internal/learn/the-community/qanda.md

> ---

Author: Every betterment is welcome

title: Q&A
description: A collection of questions and assumptions with answers.
---

> # Q: The IF is trying to make the network not be controlled by one node and are trying to figure out a cool-sounding consensus algorithm to solve it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Q: The IF is trying to make the network not be controlled by one node and is trying to figure out a cool-sounding consensus algorithm to solve it.
```

_Source: https://twitter.com/ercwl/status/1527071088676577282_

## A:

> Look at the state of blockchain ATM. Most now aim to scale through L2 bc L1 just sucks for most. In addition they reduce the number of validators (Solana is extreme here, but you see it also at Eth2.0, BSC etc.), to achieve speed. (Fewer validators can form a consensus quicker.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Look at the state of blockchain ATM. Most now aim to scale through L2 bc L1 just sucks for most. In addition, they reduce the number of validators (Solana is extreme here, but you see it also at Eth2.0, BSC etc.), to achieve speed. (Fewer validators can form a consensus quicker.)
```

> Also a blockchain is a linear list of tx in a block. If one conflicts you have to reroll the good ones as well. IOTA essentially says: you don't need a serial list, but 1) we see a way how tx can be executed  in parallel ("blocksize=1tx") and avoid serial dependency, and 2) we extend Nakamoto consensus to have thousands/millions of validators in parallel (the initial spirit of blockchain) without compromising security.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, a blockchain is a linear list of tx in a block. If one conflicts, you have to reroll the good ones as well. IOTA essentially says: you don't need a serial list, but 1) we see a way how tx can be executed in parallel ("blocksize=1tx") and avoid serial dependency, and 2) we extend Nakamoto consensus to have thousands/millions of validators in parallel (the initial spirit of blockchain) without compromising security.  
```

> All of this with subsecond finality, security and high scalability as "blocksize=1" can then be executed on multiple CPU cores (not possible with blocks) to scale TPS and thus take "blockchain" to the next level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of this with subsecond finality, security, and high scalability as "blocksize=1" can then be executed on multiple CPU cores (not possible with blocks) to scale TPS and thus take "blockchain" to the next level.
```

Next level meaning:
- no uncalculatable tx fees (fee=0)
- super green, as there are no miners etc.
- very robust & scalable infrastructure
- all with EVM (more down the road).

The 0 fee also enables 1000s of SC chains to easy exchange L1 assets (tokens, NFT's...) for free across chains w/o hackable bridges. 
Fundamentally(!) change how we see DLT and how it can scale, to finally mitigate the limits of blockchain and serve real use-cases/requirements of industry/crypto/web3 better than anything built on blockchain.

_Source: https://threadreaderapp.com/thread/1527201480574480385.html_

# Q: Why use IOTA? No one uses it. Why not an active chain like `insert blockchains here`?

> 

Author: That md is not complete (and should also not be linked in the menu if I did it right)
I messed up while trying to clean

> 

Reviewer 2: Was deleted and will be handled in another PR

# Q: Since there are no gas fees, what’s the point of iota?
## A:

> Past coordicide you will need Mana to participate in the network. Mana is generated by holding IOTA. Nodes that do not hold IOTA, but still want to participate in the IOTA network or simply have a very high throughput demand can buy access mana via some market or you could also possibly pledge your mana to a node in return for rewards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Past coordicide, you will need Mana to participate in the network. Mana is generated by holding IOTA. Nodes that do not hold IOTA but still want to participate in the IOTA network or have a very high throughput demand can buy access mana via some market. You could also possibly pledge your mana to a node in return for rewards.
```

https://blog.iota.org/explaining-mana-in-iota-part-2
And while transactions are "free", smart contracts can demand a fee for their execution.

_Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/Iota/comments/us4sc1/comment/i91vb5w_

## A:

Other applications that require the IOTA token:

**Digital assets**

> IOTA is a multi-asset ledger. Most DLTs fall into the single-asset ledger category as they are only able to track ownership of a specific base currency within their ledger. Multi-asset ledgers, on the other hand, are able to manage multiple native tokens in the same ledger as the base currency. Since IOTA’s base ledger allows for feeless transactions, IOTAs multi-asset ledger is able to perform feeless transfers of any native tokens, which is a unique innovation in the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IOTA is a multi-asset ledger. Most DLTs fall into the single-asset ledger category as they can only track ownership of a specific base currency within their ledger. On the other hand, multi-asset ledgers can manage multiple native tokens in the same ledger as the base currency. Since IOTA’s base ledger allows for feeless transactions, IOTA's multi-asset ledger can perform feeless transfers of native tokens, a unique innovation in the field.
```

All native tokens are standalone tokens in the ledger that are brought into existence by foundries and can be held or transferred from any account in the ledger. Native tokens are injected into the IOTA ledger by users. Therefore, they are also referred to as user-defined tokens. They consume valuable resources of the nodes that maintain the network, primarily storage space. As a result, each account holding native tokens must post a deposit in IOTA coins to compensate for the excessive resource consumption.

Or in other words, storage space in the IOTA ledger costs IOTA tokens (deposit). When the storage space is no longer needed, the deposited tokens can be transferred or sold.

**Micro payments**

> The absence of miners makes IOTA transactions completely charge-free transactions. Send 1 MIOTA = receive 1 MIOTA . This enables real micro payments for the machine-to-machine economy so that payment for small quantities or consumption-based payments can be implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The absence of miners makes IOTA transactions completely charge-free transactions. Send 1 MIOTA = receive 1 MIOTA . This enables real micropayments for the machine-to-machine economy so that payments for small quantities or consumption-based payments can be implemented.
```

Reviewer: The micropayments thing is currently not possible anymore. Dont know if it makes sense to include it

No micro payments without the IOTA token.

**Accounting**

> In discussions, there was always the suggestion that you could combine individual micro-transactions and then pay monthly, for example as with a subscription. If one would try this as a company it would require the creation of an accounting system that is able to handle millions of data-Tx.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In discussions, there was always the suggestion that you could combine individual micro-transactions and then pay monthly, for example, as with a subscription. Trying this as a company would require creating an accounting system that can handle millions of data-Tx.
```

These need to be…

1. evaluated (because they can all have completely different prices).
2. assigned (thousands of data tx would have to be assigned to the respective user).
3. calculated (for each user a final invoice would have to be made and possibly be charged with their data-tex if you are a user yourself).
4. check (that the payments have actually been made).

That would result in…

1. an immense staff body
2. a high risk of errors
3. a high demand for IT and office equipment for the personnel in question
4. thus high and hardly calculable costs.

Conclusion: Completely unnecessary effort of resources and personnel, which the protocol provides free of charge and fully automated with the help of IOTA Smart Contracts, IOTA streams etc.

> Btw.: All companies have to document and tax value transactions. So all data transactions have to be recorded in blockchains for accounting purposes. With IOTA, not only the fees for data transactions are eliminated but also the associated accounting including Tx storage (up to 10 years) for the majority of all transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Btw.: All companies have to document and tax value transactions. So all data transactions have to be recorded in blockchains for accounting purposes. With IOTA, the fees for data transactions are eliminated, and the associated accounting, including Tx storage (up to 10 years) for most transactions.
```

**Chain of events**

> Only with a system in which data transactions can be linked directly to value transactions the complete event chain of the data trade can be correctly traced. The IOTA token reflects the (potential) value generated by the data transaction. Therefore, it would make no sense at all if only the IOTA data transactions were used but the payment of this data takes place outside the IOTA protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only with a system in which data transactions can be linked directly to value transactions can the complete event chain of the data trade be correctly traced. The IOTA token reflects the (potential) value generated by the data transaction. Therefore, it would make no sense if only the IOTA data transactions were used, but the payment of this data takes place outside the IOTA protocol.
```

> Payment in the same system is very advantageous for all parties involved, for example, if it is done in a digital decentralized marketplace. Let’s take a look at the current process for placing an order. As a rule, an order always starts a series of events that are based on each other. This could look like this: Order > Verification > Confirmation > Payment > Check receipt of payment > Processing and shipping. This process can of course be solved individually or partially automated but basically this chain of events is always the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Payment in the same system is advantageous for all parties involved, for example, if it is done in a decentralized digital marketplace. Let’s take a look at the current process for placing an order. As a rule, an order always starts a series of events based on each other. This could look like this: Order > Verification > Confirmation > Payment > Check receipt of payment > Processing and shipping. This process can be solved individually or partially automated, but basically, this chain of events is always the same.
```

> The IOTA technology with the digital marketplaces enables a free, secure and trustless linking of unknown business partners. The technology offers a very cost effective or even free possibility to link the chain of events of an order in a single system at the correct time. If one were to outsource individual events, e.g. external payment without IOTA, it would be an additional effort to enter this individual event back into the event chain of the marketplace at the correct time. This would cause additional costs compared to the pure IOTA solution and the IOTA solution would therefore have competitive advantages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IOTA technology with the digital marketplaces enables a free, secure and trustless linking of unknown business partners. The technology offers a very cost-effective or even free possibility to link the chain of events of an order in a single system at the correct time. If one were to outsource individual events, e.g., external payment without IOTA, it would be an additional effort to enter this individual event back into the event chain of the marketplace at the correct time. This would cause additional costs compared to the pure IOTA solution, and the IOTA solution would therefore have competitive advantages.
```

**Cross-country and cross-company exchange medium**

> If you want to map cross-country and cross-company processes, trade or logistics between machines these transactions can take place without much delay and without having to agree on a trading currency etc. The only requirement is that machines have direct access to a stock exchange either directly or via a financial service provider to make conversions. This could be, for example, the house bank of a company, which keeps the Fiat accounts anyway. If the bank charges a small margin for this autonomous conversion job this is absolutely legitimate. A machine could autonomously submit a conversion order to the bank at any time and then have its IOTA tokens available to send them across the national border. In this case, the higher volatility is completely neglected and a machine would not have to keep tokens in its wallet permanently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to map cross-country and cross-company processes, trade, or logistics between machines these transactions can take place without much delay and without having to agree on a trading currency, etc. The only requirement is that machines have direct access to a stock exchange directly or via a financial service provider to make conversions. This could be, for example, the house bank of a company, which keeps the Fiat accounts anyway. If the bank charges a small margin for this autonomous conversion job, this is absolutely legitimate. A machine could autonomously submit a conversion order to the bank at any time and then have its IOTA tokens available to send across the national border. In this case, the higher volatility is completely neglected, and a machine would not have to permanently keep tokens in its wallet.
```

> IOTA is an open, free of charge, not centralized and ultra-fast clearing system!

**BTC**

> For years, the BTC experts have been saying that you can pay for everything with BTC. Among other things, this would bring all the disadvantages of BTC into decentralized trading such as incalculable transaction costs, long confirmation times, inaccurate timestamps and high energy costs. The IOTA token, which is firmly integrated into the protocol, was created to eliminate all these shortcomings and to enable real micro-transactions between machines. In addition, a BTC timestamp with an accuracy of 2 hours is completely unsuitable for the machine economy where transactions may occur every second. For example, the payment at an e-charging station could be done via IOTA Streams. For this purpose, a private IOTA Streams channel is opened between the vehicle and the e-charging point to establish a data stream. Payment is made per data point in micro transactions and payment stops as soon as no more power is received. This does not work with an external coin like BTC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BTC experts have been saying that you can pay for everything with BTC for years. Among other things, this would bring all the disadvantages of BTC into decentralized trading, such as incalculable transaction costs, long confirmation times, inaccurate timestamps, and high energy costs. The IOTA token, firmly integrated into the protocol, was created to eliminate all these shortcomings and enable real micro-transactions between machines. In addition, a BTC timestamp with an accuracy of 2 hours is completely unsuitable for the machine economy, where transactions may occur every second. For example, the payment at an e-charging station could be made via IOTA Streams. For this purpose, a private IOTA Streams channel is opened between the vehicle and the e-charging point to establish a data stream. Payment is made per data point in micro-transactions, and payment stops as soon as no more power is received. This does not work with an external coin like BTC.
```
